defines a new data type. It is the formal implementation, or blueprint, of the attributes and behaviors of the objects of that class.
a specific instance of a class with defined attributes. Objects are declared as variables of a class type.
code that is used to create new objects and initialize the object’s attributes.
keyword used to create objects with a call to one of the class’s constructors.
define the attributes for objects.
define the behaviors or functions for objects.
used to access an object’s methods.
the values or data passed to an object’s method inside the parentheses in the method call to help the method do its job.
values returned by methods to the calling method.
String methods do not change the String object. Any method that seems to change a string actually creates a new string.
classes that create objects from primitive types, for example the Integer class and Double class.
is used to create a new object.
is used to indicate that an object reference doesn’t refer to any object yet.
Constructs a new String object that represents the same sequence of characters as str.
returns the number of characters in a String object.
returns the substring beginning at index from and ending at index (to -1). The single element substring at position index can be created by calling substring(index, index + 1).
returns substring(from, length()).
returns the index of the first occurrence of str; returns -1 if not found.
returns true if this (the calling object) is equal to other; returns false otherwise.
returns a value < 0 if this is less than other; returns zero if this is equal to other; returns a value > 0 if this is greater than other.
Constructs a new Integer object that represents the specified int value.
The minimum value represented by an int or Integer.
The maximum value represented by an int or Integer.
Returns the value of this Integer as an int.
Constructs a new Double object that represents the specified double value.
Returns the value of this Double as a double.
Returns the absolute value of an int value (which means no negatives).
Returns the absolute value of a double value.
Returns the value of the first parameter raised to the power of the second parameter.
Returns the positive square root of a double value.
Returns a double value greater than or equal to 0.0 and less than 1.0 (not including 1.0!).
moves the random number into a range starting from a minimum number. The range is the (max number-min number+1). For example, to get a number in the range of 5 to 10, use the range 10-5+1=6 and the min number 5: (int)(Math.random()*6)+5).

